appreciate his effort!

Milestone 1 - up to E-R model.  due next week.
after exam 1 chance to refine milestone 1??

We can go back to modify E-R model / program, so we can go ahead and start on the project.

exam - october 27th, same location.
he will be out of country for conference, so someone else will monitor exam.

he'll assign us a seat next week for exam.
nov. 3rd - speaker talking about middleware - how to connect to frontend and backend, what software you should use.

1 problem in his lecture will be in exam 2.


next week milestone 1 due, beginning -> today's lecture.
everything up to tables, normalization, E/R model.  
20 queries in english.
- things the user may want (eg. dept. chair may want to know how many people register in department from foreign countries, from texas, from each state.)
every app can create hundreds of queries.  depends on user wants.
eg. "how come i'm overdrafted, how do i find out my balance?"
Milestone 1 doesn't need to be bound.



next week E-R in depth, after exam more E-R model.

implementation 1 - at least with SQL / Oracle, (no frontend) - turn in
- source of program (statements, interpreter, whatever)
 -> print-screen to get out source if it's interpreted.
- E-R model
- output
- input
- you can include UI or not.  2nd implementation must have UI.

Deadline for implementation 1 - November 10th.

You must use SQL, you can use other packages but you still must use SQL at some point.


Exam - 40 minutes no questions, after 40 minutes you can ask instructor questions.  he'll answer at the end.

Today we do 
- 1 thru 5 chapters.  based on outline.

kmany people used interface or result of queries as grade, wrong thing but many people touched on it .  If you are A- you need to correct, if you're A you are okay.
user schema is for customer, 10 queries must not be 10 user interfaces.  User schema is the views.  


next week - really normalize tables, get E-R model going.

----------------------
Starting Lecture

Decomposition
Anomalies - Insert, Delete, Update
Functional Dependency
Partial Dependency
1st/2nd normal form
Primary Keys


To make sure your table is in normal form
- be sure to decide Primary Keys
- make sure every attribute depends on those keys.

One table we have Patient #, Patiend Name, and Patiend Address.
In another table we ahve Surgeon #, Surgeon Name.  
In another table we have Patient #, Surgeon #, Date of Surgery, Surgery, Drug.

These 3 tables are in 2nf, but they are not enough.

You still have anomalies here.  the Side-Effect is determined by the Drug, but it is not a partial dependency.
An attribute depends on an attribute which is not part of the primary key.  It's still a functional dependency, but it's not partial.  It's called "Transitivity" dependency.

Transitive Dependency: In a relation R, if x -> y, y -> z are in R, and x -> z is also in R, then it is called transitive dependence.  The relation x -> z is not needed.  

So we want to create a new table, Drug and Side-Effect.  But Drug stays in the original table, we can only remove Side-Effect from the original table.

No transitive dependency - 3rd normal form.

E-R model goes by the 3rd normal form.  You must have table first before you create model.

E-R
*P#
*S#
*Date
Surgery
Drug

You can use *, bold, or underline to denote primary key.

*Patient #
Patient Name
Patient Address

*Surgeon number
Surgeion Name

Don't use Peter Chang's symbols.  (diamonds etc.)

*Drug
Side-Effect

3rd normal form - the tables are called Entities not Relations.  Entities mean the table has been normalized (to 3rd normal form.)

You draw lines to link different entities' attributes to each other.  If an attribute is a foreign key, 

Remember! - you're creating E-R model according to normalization of tables.  
Use (F) to denote foreign key.
relations should be denoted as in 1 -> n for example.

many people call it E-R model.

Basically exactly the way I did it is correct.

( you can use crow feet notation but you don't have to, just use 1.... n .... don't use any other notations.)

from patient to surgery table, would be 1...n
from drug to surgery table, would be 1...n

Next week - all normalized tables in report, preliminary E-R model, 20 queries, etc.  milestone 1 !



