A model is an interpretation of a sentence that is True.  An interpretation is a set of values you choose to use for it.

we need to be very precise when we do any reasoning, in this class.

x is a variable, a predicate is, eg. Animal(x).  A sentence is a whole collection of predicates where no variables are free.

Turing award - nobel prize for C.S.

Dijkstra's Algorithm - shortest path from a node to all other nodes in a tree.
- starving philosopher
- mutexes

in this course we seek to learn how to talk about stuff very specifically.

fir'st order theory
Axiom - given true
Theorems - proven true, derived from axioms
Theory - all possible axioms and theorems that have been proven true using some complete inference rules.
Inconsistent - there's a contradiction in the theory
otherwise it's Consistent.

second order logic - variables range over sets of individuals (for All, for SOme, x is contained in P or x Not contained in P)
higher-order logic - predicate takes one or more other predicates as arguments.

cardinality:
a natural number (if S is infinite)
"countably infinite" : S has same number of elements as there are integers.
"Uncountably infinite": (S has more elements than there are integers.

empty set:
cardinality of empty set = 0
cardinality of {empty set} is 1

Relating Sets to Each Other
(a) - a is contained in b
(b) - a union b
(c) and (d) - set difference
(e) - complement (not-A)
(f) - a and b are disjoint

power set of A - set of all subsets of A
Pi is a partition of set A iff
-no element of Pi is empty
- all pairs of elements of Pi are disjoint
- union of all elements in Pi is A
eg. A={1,2,3}
Pi = {{1},{2,3}}

a binary relation over two sets A and B is a subset of cartesian product (A x B)
binary relations are useful.

Eg. Desssert = {(Dave, cake), (Dave, ice cream),
(Sarah, pie), (Sara, ice cream)}
Dessert -1 = {(cake, Dave), (ice cream, Dave),
(pie, Sarah), (ice cream, Sara)}

why do you define a relation as a subset?
the tuples share the same relationship...  you put all pairs that have the same relationship together.


