in case of a conflict between the lecture notes and the book, use the lecture notes.  His  "Path" slide is different from the text.


How should we prepare for the exam? (in general)
- he will talk about it after the review.

if a machine "M" is deterministic, there is only ONE Path.
for DFSM and DPDA, the path is finite and are guaranteed to end in either an exception or a rejection.  So they are guaranteed to halt in at most |w| moves, where w is the path.
** Since DFSM = regular languages, the above halting property implies regular languages are decidable.

if "M" is NONdeterministic, there may be multiple paths.
- for NDFSM and NDPDA, if without epsilon-transitions, they are guaranteed to halt in at most |w| moves.  some NDPDA may not halt if they have epsilon.  However, we can find an equivalent NDPDA without epsilon transitions, which WILL halt.  but it is still NDPDA.

If it doesn't have epsilon transitions how is it still a deterministic 


these things "Languages Machine and Grammars" wouldn't be on test he's just showing the overview to help us out.

Decidable Language == Recursive Language
SemiDecidable - recursively enumerable.

if he asks you which machine can accept "D" you should say "Turing Machines"
** it would help to learn this Languages Machines and Grammars slide.

there are actually more languages outside this SD than inside it.

pumping lemma - in the assignment and also in the final.

we can also use the 'closure' property.

** particular pumping lemma stuff?  - will be on final, he gave us info about them.

**better remember, NOT(H) is not in SD, H is in SD.  Remember at least one language that is in SD and one that is not.

reduction

other instructors probably don't cover it.
-- when you use this reduction for complexity, you must consider the efficiency of the reduction (polynomial).  


if its proved that P = NP, then intractable = not in P = not in NP.
but most people believe P != NP.


because we believe P != NP, we see the NP-hard and NP-complete problems as intractable.

for NP-Complete problems, 


Final - you can use a cheat sheet.  2-sided regular size 8.5x11 paper.


Final
part 1
1. let M be  amchaine, L(M) is language decided by M


50 questions of 1 point each, then 16 2-point questions.

6 3-point questions.


2nd and 3rd questions are to try to separate us into groups.

#6 - 3-sat reduction problem


about assignment submission, ask how to submit assignment 6.


#3 - 3-point question, define a language to be co-finite iff its complement is finite, any co-finite language.... explain why.


#35 - union of countably infinite number of countably infinite is countable.

First 50 questions are just Y/N.

His office, before 10 PM 225 NUECES.
