
a binary relation R on set A is closed under property P iff R possesses P.
eg.
let R = {(1,2), (2,3), (3,4)}
not transitive closure.  (1, 3) is not in R.  transitive (1, 4), (2, 4), must all be in R also.

not reflexive closure either.  you are missing (1,1) (2,2) (3,3) and (4,4).  it doesn't reflect its input onto its outputs.

a closure must be minimal.

proof techniques:
proof by counter example - claim: no females in the room.  proof: point at female.

proof by case enumeration
eg. condition that satisfies for all even numbers, then another for all odd numbers.  you break into classes.

Proof by mathematical induction.
if P(b) is true, and for all n >= b P(n) ->  P(n+1)
then for all integers n >= b P(n) is true.

Pigeonhole principle.

countably infinite sets.  a set N is countable iff it's either finite or countably infinite.
set "N" is countably infinite (natural numbers).  call its cardinality X0.
set "A" is countably ifinite if it also has cardinality X0 and there is some bijection f: N -> A.

eg.
the set of even natural numbers is countably infinite.
Even: N -> E
Even(x) = 2x.
this is a bijection.  therefore E is countably infinite.

enumerations - sometimes bijection is not as obvious. then a good way to think about finding bijection from N to "A" is to turn into problem of finding enumeration of "A".

an enumeration of set A is a list of elements of A in some order.  each element of A must occur in enumeration exactly once.

A set "A" is countably infinite iff there exists an infinite enumeration of it.

finite union.
the union of a finite number of countably infinite sets is countably infinte.  just take the first element of all sets, add to union, then move on to next element of all sets, etc.

if we have a countably infinite number of countably infinite sets we can't generate a union, because you can't even finish the first step.


diagonalization
N is countably infinite.  its cardinality is X0.
there are sets with more than X0 elements (not countably infinite) eg. se t of real numbers.
The power set of integers is not countable.
S is a countably infinite set, P(S) is not countable.

to prove use diagonalization.
prove by contradicition.
we say "if A is countably infinite, it should have an enumeration."  then we show that there is an element of A that is in the set, but not in the enumeration of it.
