next exam concentrates on the E-R model so you need to learn it well this semester.

first 30 mins before exam - we will have a review, functional dependency, primary key, foreign key, candidate key, first, second, third normal form, anomalies, E-R model.

next week, when he hands out the project exam, ,he wants to volunteer a few people to bring up E-R model.

"how to get correct answer" not the correct answer that's important in this class.

#1- not important
#2- he doesn't know the correct answer either


next week or next 2 weeks we'll pick project to review w/ the class.



functional dependencies!
for a table to be in first normal form, all non-key attributes must be functionally dependent on the key attributes.
for a table to be in second normal form, all non-key attributes must be functionally dependent on the entire primary key.
1st -> 2nd is performed by removing the functional dependencies that are causing partial dependencies into a new table.
2nd -> 3rd is performed by removing the funcitonal dependencies that are causing transitive dependencies into a new table.

Partial dependencies are when an attribute is dependent on a subset of the primary key ,rather than the entire primary key.
Transitive dependencies are when an attribute is functionally dependent on another attribute that is NOT part of the primary key.


1st, 2nd, 3rd, BCNF, 4th, 5th, normal forms - no one ever goes above 3rd in practice.


if you do normalization correclty your database supports the same data.
"lossless decomposition".

he will pick up people to walk up there and write.

Put attributes there, define the primary key of each table, and make an E-R model.

course - in the catalog, class is in the schedule.

Student
Student ID
Name


Class
Student ID
Course ID
Time

Course
CourseID
Description


Classroom
ClassroomID
Time
CourseID
InstructorID

Instructor
InstructorID
InstructorName


--------------
That was my try.

They have them on the board, we're going to correct it.  

Primary key can uniquely identiy that record. 
You can either use a Index Number or you can use the courseID, semester and sectionID (eg. CS5332, fall 2009, section 1).

