
	Review of NETWORKING
	
LANs are faster and more reliable than WANs.  

IEEE has different standards for different network types.

802.3 / Ethernet still used in some parts of the US but it's very rare... ???

Ethernet's main advantage is you can add/remove computers anytime you want.

802.4 / Token Bus.
token is passed around in a ring.  each person can't put anything on the network unless they have it.
advantages - Resources used in time-sharing manner, no collisions, built-in priority scheme.  based on priority of packets not of computers.
the data rate is about the same as ethernet, 10mbps.  

802.5: Token Ring.
token bus has a single physical cable and a logical ring.  this has a physical ring.  it can be used for both LANs and WANs.  ring technologies are well executed and lots of mature hardware exists for them.
data frames arriving at each dte is placed in a priority queue just like token bus.

lots of detail about how token rings work.

checksums, maximum transmission units, etc.  should know all this from Networks.


Propagation delay - a physical delay.

Transmission Delay - ??

going over TCP/IP and such.
-relationship of TCP/IP to OSI model
IPv6 has a much larger address space than ipv4, but the addresses are harder to read.

Different classes - eg. universities have a different class of IPs than a small school, etc.

The IP layer allows navigation of packets through a network.  UDP provides a checksum that covers the whole datagram and it also supports ports.  That's the only difference between UDP and IP.  This elevates UDP from network level to transport layer. (udp = User Datagram Protocol)

TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) - connection-oriented, reliable communication protocol.

He then did lots of traceroutes and discussed routing algorithms.

Middleware is a software layer that provides ease of use / convenience / abstraction / productivity to the resources below.

Different middleware:
RPC (remote procedure calls)
Java RMI (remote method invocation)
CORBA (Common Object Request Broker Architecture) - Object-Oriented concepts.

Microsoft thinks DCOM is a replacement of OO approach.

example of middleware - Java's database library that abstracts the actual database issues away from it.

TCP is software.  describes how it's robust and such.

you can port-map a service.  middleware can help a certain degree for abstraction, but the final degree of help for the user depends on many factors.

FDDI - proposed fiber-based LAN protocol  data rate of 100 mbps.  Fast Ethernet based on twisted pair has same data rate, so FDDI is pointless (it's more complicated.)



		Heterogeneity
hardware heterogeneity: instruction sets, data representations (endianness)

distributed computing can provide significant challenges... middleware together with the OS can help to reduce the problems / troubles caused in distributed systems.


