
next thursday no meeting.  last day, exam & demo.   

end of chapter 5 - frequent pattern mining.

then we discuss exam questions.

15 mins about data warehouse (ch 3) - not covered in assignments / exams.

-------
Frequent Pattern Analysis
agrawal - #1 guy in data mining.
- try to find data that is not obvious / previously known.

- a more frequent pattern is more statistically significant - less likely to be random coincidence / noise.

support (daiper -> beer) = Probability that something contains (diaper & beer).

relative support: percentage of diaper u beer in all transactions.

absolute support: just the number before dividing by # of transactions.

conditional probability P(B|A) is the probability that a trnasaction having A will also contain B. 
   probability of B given A.
   
probability is frequent if its support is > minimum support threshold.

if a superset is frequent its subsets MUST be frequent.

closed pattern: a pattern is closed if there is no super-pattern that is as frequent (has the same support.)

there are cases where a pattern can be closed but not maximal.


we want to know the support of each pattern.  once we know it, we can easily calculate support & confidence.

downward closure property - if a pattern is frequent, its subsets are frequent.

apriori is useful in lots of fields.

in our case, if we find a set who is not frequent, there is no reason to generate any of its supersets.

- don't worry about support counting.

confusion matrix / contingency table.

constraint-based mining...
monotonic vs. antimonotonic.  if a superset satisfies the constraint, the subset must violate it.
if a subset violates a constraint, so does its supersets.

anti-monotonic: say you say "people under 5 years old".. then if 4 people satisfy it then 3 people do also.

downward closure is anti-monotonic.

monotonic: when an item S satisfies the constraint, so do any of its supersets.

don't worry about succinctness.

he has question on exam about monotonic / antimonotonic.

exam questions:
50 questions.
30 questions are from information retrieval and web search.
10 are from the first half of the semester.  another 10 are from frequent pattern mining.

some questions are still true/false, not many.  most questions are short-answer (very short answer.)

possible materials:
zipf's law = one kind of power law.  applied in many real-life situations.  80/20 rule.
queries and # of terms and such all apply.

stop words, lemmatization, stemming, etc.
postings list, champions list.  how docs are ordered in champions list.

no tricky questions, but they are not that straightforward.  you need to think a little bit.

random walk, tf-idf.

spamming techniques

page-rank => how to make it topic-specific.

HITS algorithm

map-reduce 


should be able to finish it within an hour for sure.


demo should be around 10 minutes.  try to be less than 15 minutes on it.
powerpoint is not necessary but, say your service takes a long time to run, you may want to just show it on the slides.
he's not gonna require a report.


data warehouse - very big database.  dbms is supporting online business transactions.  OLAP - data warehousing - is meant for analytical purposes.
analyze the trends - the summary.

